Kb shortcuts GA (#2600)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/design/keyboard-shortcuts.md

---
title: Custom keyboard shortcuts in Office Add-ins
description: 'Learn how to add custom keyboard shortcuts, also known as key combinations, to your Office Add-in.'
ms.date: 05/05/2021
localization_priority: Normal
---

# Add Custom keyboard shortcuts to your Office Add-ins

> Keyboard shortcuts, also known as key combinations, enable your add-in's users to work more efficiently and they improve the add-in's accessibility for users with disabilities by providing an alternative to the mouse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keyboard shortcuts, also known as key combinations, enable your add-in's users to work more efficiently. Keyboard shortcuts also improve the add-in's accessibility for users with disabilities by providing an alternative to the mouse.
```

            {
                "action": "SHOWTASKPANE",
                "key": {

>                     "default": "CTRL+ALT+UP"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    "default": "Ctrl+Alt+Up arrow key"
```

                }
            },
            {
                "action": "HIDETASKPANE",
                "key": {

>                     "default": "CTRL+ALT+DOWN"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    "default": "Ctrl+Alt+Down arrow key"
```

    });
    ```

Following the previous steps lets your add-in toggle the visibility of the task pane by pressing **Ctrl+Alt+Up arrow key** and **Ctrl+Alt+Down arrow key**. This is the same behavior as shown in the [sample excel keyboard shortcuts add-in](https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP-OfficeAddins/tree/master/Samples/excel-keyboard-shortcuts).

## Details and restrictions

> ### Constructing the action objects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Construct the action objects
```

        {
            "action": "SHOWTASKPANE",
            "key": {
                "default": "CTRL+ALT+UP"
            }
        },
        {
            "action": "HIDETASKPANE",
            "key": {

>                 "default": "CTRL+ALT+DOWN"

Author: Thank you Linda, I will change all the code samples to not be in ALL CAPS, it will not break the current flow.

> [!NOTE]

> > Keytips, also known as sequential key shortcuts, such as the Excel shortcut to choose a fill color **Alt+H, H**, are not supported in Office Add-ins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> KeyTips, also known as sequential key shortcuts, such as the Excel shortcut to choose a fill color **Alt+H+H**, are not supported in Office Add-ins.
```

Reviewer 2: > 

With sequential shortcuts, the comma is used, not another + sign.

Reviewer: Thanks! I found this in the [Excel keyboard shortcut list](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/topic/keyboard-shortcuts-in-excel-1798d9d5-842a-42b8-9c99-9b7213f0040f) but surprisingly, nowhere in the styleguide (that I could find, anyway.)

## Using key combinations that are already used by Office or another add-in

There are many keyboard shortcuts that are already being used by Office. Ideally, you want to avoid registering keyboard shortcuts for your add-in that are already being used, but there may be some instances where it is necessary to override existing keyboard shortcuts or handle conflicts between multiple add-ins that have registered the same keyboard shortcut.

> In the case of a conflict, the user will see a dialog box the first time they attempt to use a conflicting keyboard shortcut, note that the action name that is displayed in this dialog is the `name` property in the action object in `shortcuts.json` file.

Author: That is correct, I am trying to distinguish between the user and the developer.

![Illustration showing the reset office add-in shortcut preferences action in the tell me search box for Excel.](../images/add-in-reset-shortcuts-action.png)

For the best user experience, we recommend that you minimize conflicts with Excel with these good practices:

- Use only keyboard shortcuts with the following pattern in your add-in: **Ctrl+Shift+Alt+*x***, where *x* is some other key.
- If you need more keyboard shortcuts, check the [list of Excel keyboard shortcuts](https://support.microsoft.com/office/keyboard-shortcuts-in-excel-1798d9d5-842a-42b8-9c99-9b7213f0040f), and avoid using any of them in your add-in.
- When the keyboard focus is inside the add-in UI, **Ctrl+Spacebar** and **Ctrl+Shift+F10** will not work as these are essential accessibility shortcuts.

> - On a Windows/Mac, if the "Reset Office Add-ins Shortcut Preferences" command is not available for you through the search menu, you can manually add the command to the ribbon by customizing the ribbon through the context menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- On a Windows or Mac computer, if the "Reset Office Add-ins Shortcut Preferences" command is not available on the search menu, the user can manually add the command to the ribbon by customizing the ribbon through the context menu.
```

- Ctrl+W
- Ctrl+PgUp/PgDn

## Next Steps

> - See the sample add-in [excel-keyboard-shortcuts](https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP-OfficeAddins/tree/master/Samples/excel-keyboard-shortcuts).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- See the [Excel keyboard shortcuts](https://github.com/OfficeDev/PnP-OfficeAddins/tree/master/Samples/excel-keyboard-shortcuts) sample add-in.
```
